Chicken Curry recipe for 1-2 lbs of chicken.

Whole spices for for tempering:
	1 medium cinnamon stick
	5-6 Green cardamom pods
	2-3 whole cloves
	1 tsp whole cumin seeds
	3-4 Black cardamom pods (remember to bruise)

Other ingredients:
	2 large red onions finally sliced or chopped
	whole chili with a slit down the middle
	ginger paste 2 tablespoon
	ginger julienned 1 tablespoon (optional)
	garlic paste 1.5 tablespoon
	tomatoes 3-4 large chopped finely
	chicken thighs with bones about 1-2 lbs
	Cumin powder .5 tsp (heaping)
	coriander powder 1 tsp (heaping)
	turmeric powder .5 teaspoon (heaping)
	red chili powder .5-1 tsp
	garam masala powder 1 tsp + an extra .5 tsp to add at end of cooking
	coriander leaves (cilantro) a good handful finely chopped
	cooking oil  3-4 TBS
	butter 1-2 TBS
	Hot water or coconut milk 1.5 cups (or so) I recommend the coconut milk  Water makes the curry hotter and more acidic but also runnier.  Coconut milk makes it smoother and sweeter.

Step 1: In a pan, add oil on medium heat.  Once hot, add all the whole spices in the order above

Step 2: Once spices start to brown, add sliced onion, fry until golden

Step 3: Add butter, ginger paste and garlic paste; fry until fragrant, then add the chopped tomatoes.  Cook for 3-4 minutes and add chicken.

Step 4: Give everything a good stir add the julienned ginger and whole chilies.  Mix again

Step 5: Cover and cook on medium-low flame for a few minutes.  The chicken and onion should release a bit of water

Step 6: Once tomatoes get pulpier add powdered spices: cumin, coriander powder, turmeric, red chili powder, and  1 tsp garam masala powder

Step 7: Add coriander leaves and giv everything a good mix, stir well and add water (or coconut milk) depending on how you like your gravy.

Step 8: Let curry boil on medium low for 7-8 minutes, the chicken should curl up from the bone when cooked.

Step 9: Add last .5 tsp of garam masala, garnish with chopped coriander leaves and more whole chilies if you like

Pro tip, for a different curry experience, add a potato or two, cubed or diced.
